In this lesson, I'm going to run my test method and see how it works.
I will save changes to this method.
I will scroll up and I will run it to see how it works.
Now that this man has failed.
And if I scroll down, I will see the reason.
So here I see the details of a GDP request.
Let's expand it a little bit.
I see exception.
Method argument not valid.
So there is invalid argument.
And I see the status code 400, which stands for bad request.
So one of the arguments that I have provided is invalid firstname.
Last name and email address does not have correct email format.
So this is where I made a mistake.
Let's go back up to our test method and provide email address that has correct format email at for example
test dot com.
And if you wonder how this validation was done, then if I go to controller method and scroll down a
little bit to my method under test for this method I have configured been validation and I have used
valid annotation together with request body.
And if I open a user details request model object, then here each field is annotated with validation
annotation.
So this is how validation is done.
Spring framework does it for us automatically, but I need to enable this validation and provide validation
annotations for the bean that I want to be validated and for this validation to work.
I have also added one additional dependency to my project that is called Sprint Boot Starter Validation.
Okay, so now let's close it and let's go back to our test method.
And we have provided correct email address or email address that has correct format.
And I can now run my test method again and see if it works.
And this time it passes.
And the fact that being validation works and that this method is now successful tells me that my create
used method in the rest controller class is well integrated with Sprint Framework and the forward slash
users API endpoint that I use to send this request.
This one does also work.
All right, so let's try failing it by introducing a little bug in the controller class.
I'll go to use this controller and let's assume that I have accidentally made some mistake.
For example.
I will use create user object and I will maybe set user ID to an empty string.
Let's save changes and run our test method again.
And now when test method fails and if I scroll down to read the error message description here I see
that user id should not be empty.
So I have a failing assertion for user ID, which is an expected result.
Now let's fix it.
I will remove this change, save it and run it again.
And I'm expecting it to pass again.
And it passes.
All right.
So it works and it proves that our create user method in the controller class is triggered when a HTTP
post request is sent to a forward slash user's API endpoint.
And it proves that these method under test can successfully read user details from request body and
that integration of this method with Sprint framework does also work.
All right, so let's continue and let's create one more test method to check if the validation of our
HTTP request body does work.
We did see it working, but this is because I have accidentally made a mistake.
But this time I'm going to write a test method to assert that if one of the required fields is missing,
then my API endpoint will respond back with a bad request or HTTP status code 400.
So let's do that.